---
layout: post
title: Resume of Jeff Watkins
date: 2006-02-18
author: Jeff Watkins
categories:
- Uncategorized
---

<div style="text-align:center;margin-bottom: 2em;">
    <h1>Jeff Watkins</h1>
    <address>
    3 Market Sq Apt #3<br/>
    Newburyport, MA 01950<br/>
    jeff@newburyportion.com<br/>
    508-423-4816
    </address>
</div>

For the last ten years, I've designed and developed cutting-edge user interfaces and proofs-of-concept for the Web and Windows grounded and informed by a background of hard-core C++ application development. I'm now seeking a product design position with an organization that shares my passion for developing exceptional products and where my experience, dedication and enthusiasm can make a real difference.

**Languages:** C/C++/Objective-C, JavaScript, HTML/DHTML/XHTML/CSS, Java, C#, XML/XSLT, SQL/T-SQL, ASP, Python, PHP<br/>
**APIs:** C++ Standard Library (STL), Apple Carbon & Cocoa, Microsoft .Net, MFC, ATL, COM, J2SE, Servlets/JSP, JDBC<br/>
**Operating Systems:** MacOS X, Linux/Unix/Solaris, Windows NT/2000/XP<br/>
**Servers:** IIS, Apache, Tomcat, MS SQL Server, Oracle 8i, MySQL, CVS, Subversion

Experience
==========

User Interface Architect -- <small>Sentillion, 2004&nbsp;-&nbsp;Present</small>
------------------------------------------------------

* Designed and developed HTML-based user interfaces for application integration wizards to decrease the time needed to develop integration scripts from weeks to days. These wizards are the best sales tool Sentillion has according to a quote by the CIO of a national hospital chain: "We've got to have that."
* Developed sophisticated libraries to increase script functionality and consistency while dramatically reducing script length from 2,500 lines to less than 500 lines on average.
* Taught JavaScript programming to customers.

Senior Technical Consultant -- <small>International Biometric Group, 2003&nbsp;-&nbsp;2004</small>
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Designed IBG's biometric demonstration system using C++ and multiple biometric devices including Iris, Fingerprint, and voice recognition. These demonstration systems were featured during presentations to national law enforcement agencies from the EU, US, and Canada.
* Architected C++-based biometric application developed for Defence Research and Development Canada.
* Crafted technical responses to RFPs

Senior Software Engineer -- <small>InfoSpace, 2002</small>
-------------------------------------------

* Designed C# components of distributed .Net application server to replace aging user profile management systems and offering such improved functionality as validated profile fields and consolidated user data, while also dramatically improving performance.
* Coordinated server migration plan including writing MS SQL Server stored procedures.
* Mentored junior engineers emphasizing problem solving skills and software development methodology.

Technical Consultant/Sales Engineer -- <small>BroadVision, 2001</small>
--------------------------------------------------------

* Developed eye-popping custom presentations of J2EE-based enterprise portal application -- including expanding the product functionality through CSS and dynamic HTML.
* Developed a quickly customizable presentation framework which simplified incorporation of the brand identity and business processes of prospects -- showing how the product solved the prospect's problems rather than merely demonstrating the product.
* Worked closely with Account Managers to define technical need and business value.
* Provided technical material for RFP responses.

Product Manager & Software Architect -- <small>Primus, 1999&nbsp;-&nbsp;2000</small>
-----------------------------------------------------------

* Emphasized product business value and discussed product direction with customers during numerous pre-sales visits and trade shows.
* Developed custom product demonstrations for Sales Engineering team.
* Worked closely with the VPs of Marketing and Sales during product planning.
* Managed development schedule for 3 on-time product releases.
* Managed team of six engineers -- including one-on-one meetings, career planning, and performance reviews.
* Designed scalable N-tier distributed product architecture based on C++/HTML/JavaScript, XML-RPC (and later SOAP) running under Windows and Solaris on Apache, Netscape and IIS.
* Developed Java applets, HTML/JavaScript ASP pages, and C++ server components.

Technical Consultant & Project Manager -- <small>iTango Software, 1998&nbsp;-&nbsp;1999</small>
----------------------------------------------------------------------

* Created and presented custom proofs-of-concept for Visio, InfoSeek, and other prospects.
* Created custom HTML/JavaScript applications using IIS, ASP, and C++ COM components.
* Managed implementation projects for Professional Services team.

Independent User Interface Consultant -- <small>1997&nbsp;-&nbsp;1998</small>
----------------------------------------------------------------

* Designed and developed custom HTML and JavaScript web applications.
* Developed custom C++ Microsoft Windows-based applications.

Lead Engineer & Software Architect -- <small>Primus, 1996&nbsp;-&nbsp;1997</small>
---------------------------------------------------------

* Designed user interface of eSupport 1.0 - 3.0.
* Designed extensible scripting engine for web application development.
* Lead development of Primus' first web application (eSupport) using HTML/JavaScript and C++ CGIs running on Solaris (Netscape & Apache) and Windows (Netscape & IIS).

Contract Windows Development -- <small>1991&nbsp;-&nbsp;1996</small>
-------------------------------------------
* Clients including Microsoft, Lotus, Attachmate, and Dun & Bradstreet
* Developed custom Windows applications using C++, MFC and other technologies

Personal
========

* Studied computer science at the Georgia Institute of Technology
* German language -- exchange student & 3 years of college study
* Eagle Scout
* US Citizen
* Avid photographer
