---
layout: post
title: Insomnia!
date: 2004-12-22
author: Anna
categories:
- Life
---

> "I'm so tired, I haven't slept a wink<br>
> I'm so tired, my mind is on the blink<br>
> I wonder, should I get up and fix myself a drink?"<br>
> -- John Lennon/The Beatles, <i>I'm So Tired</i>

Some of you out there in blog-land might be up at the crack of dawn against your will, getting ready or heading out to make a buck. I feel for you. Some of you might be the insane sort who enjoy the darkness and solitude of 5:15am. I think you're a bit wacky, but I know how hard it can be to find some quiet time these days.

I've been up since about 3:15. And this is not the first day. I don't even know anymore how many days in a row it has been, and I don't suppose that I'd like the answer very much should I ever figure it out.

Point is, I am damn tired, and there doesn't seem to be anything I can do about it. It has become an all too familiar pattern: all is quiet, and sometime between 3 and 4 in the am my bladder expresses an urgent need to empty. Yes, I've tried to quiet it by not drinking anything before I go to bed. No, I can't seem to convince it to wait until the sun comes up and warms things up a bit.

So, I reluctantly shuffle to the bathroom, and answer the call of nature.

This usually sets off phase two. By rising, I disturb the one or two cats who have been acting as heat leeches during the course of the night. I attempt to coax them back into bed by making kissy noises, patting the bed next to me, or making whispered threats, but to no available.

Thus begins a variation of the Kitty-Kat 500, a two or three-hour race/steeplechase/rollerderby. It has no set course, although back and forth across the length of the apartment seems a popular choice. One or up to four (yes, we have four, in case you have forgotten) cats joins in the fun, only pausing for a brief halftime show wherein one of our felines does their impersonation of an American Idol losing contestant.

By about 6 or sometimes 7 am, the show is over, and the little athletes rest for most of the day. Unfortunately, the damage is done and not only am I usually unable to sleep, but even if I do I am a zombie for the rest of the day.

I am going insane, but I thought at least this recap would entertain at the hearing...