---
layout: post
title: 40 Weeks Later...
date: 2005-12-06
author: Anna
categories:
- Molly
---

Plus almost two days- so far.

Everyone has called, at least once, to find out how things are progressing in the Baby Production Department. In the interest of keeping all two people who glance at this blog informed, here is a summary of the past week or so.

Starting last week, and increasing this week, I am experiencing some lovely little contractions. Mostly just crampy, "that time-of-the-month" sort of feelings, except over the whole of my stomach, rather than just in the lower regions. Think it might have something to do with the fact that my uterus is stretched to full capacity? Yeah, me too.

On Monday, the official guess date, a bit of poking around revealed that I was 1cm dilated (9 more to go!) and 50% effaced/thinned out (halfway there!) So, in other words, not much happening.

In the wee hours of Tuesday, I woke up with mild contractions, and feeling generally "off". I visited the bathroom, as is my nightly habit to discover a little something extra. Apparently my "cork" was in the process of popping. In more technical terms, I had begun to expel my mucus plug. Doesn't that sound lovely?

Today, the expulsion and contracting has continued. While I would like to go into further details, based on Jeff's reaction, I will refrain. I will only say that it is simultaneously the most exciting and repulsive thing that has happened to me to date.

The good news is that this means I am most likely in the home stretch- or so I hope. Maybe by this weekend?

We will try to post a photo tomorrow. One where I look nice and enormous...